What are the capabilities & technologies enabled by deep learning?A deep learning model can identify, classify and analyze structured data, images, text or sound.

Computer Vision
Computer vision includes comprehending a visual environment and its context. For forming a computer vision model, there are three steps:

acquiring an image from data sets
processing the image automatically with deep learning algorithms
identifying the image and its class.
The types of computer vision include image classification & segmentation, object detection & tracking. Feel free to explore our research on computer vision.

Image classification and segmentation
Deep learning models can discriminate an image from others and classify it by using predefined and labeled categories. Convolutional neural networks (CNN) are deep learning networks and are mostly used in this domain. To ease the analysis of the image, image segmentation models are used. Today, image classification and segmentation algorithms are used in different areas from our daily activities to future technologies. For instance, this technology allows us to

analyse medical images more accurately
develop self driving cars
do fingerprint, iris and face matching for biometric processes
look up details for artworks
have smarter home security systems
Feel free to read our image recognition research.

Object detection and tracking
An image contains various objects and object detection algorithms are applied for localisation and classification of these objects. Object detection models build bounding boxes around objects and determine the objects within the bounding box. Object tracking can be implemented after detection of the object. When an object moves in the bounding box, object tracking models track this object into the next images and update the bounding boxes. These models are used for

face recognition from images
identification a specific individual in the photos/images
Natural language processing (NLP)
Natural language processing algorithms interpret and analyse natural language data in textual or verbal forms. It enables generating human language, speech or identifying the speaker based on differences in voice.

NLP deep learning applications include speech recognition, text classification, sentiment analysis, text simplification and summarisation, writing style recognition, machine translation, parts-of-speech tagging, and  text-to-speech tasks. This technology helps us for

virtual voice/smart assistants
Digital workers
e-mail filters
autocorrect & autocomplete text checks
communicating with chatbots
translating languages in real time
Feel free to check our related research about NLP.

Automated predictions
As we mentioned in our deep learning software guide, deep learning models can provide better, faster, cheaper and valuable predictions compared to other machine learning approaches. This is especially true in cases where a large volume of high quality training data is available. Predictive models based on deep artificial neural networks (i.e. deep learning) can work with vast amounts of data, realize nonlinear relationships and figure out complex patterns.

What are deep learning use cases in different industries and sectors?
Agriculture
Optimize yield production by using data from sensors and satellites taking into account temperature, humidity, etc.
Aerospace & Defence
Identify objects from images acquired via satellites
Use surveillance cameras to detect suspicious events or gather intelligence
Automotive
Develop autonomous things including vehicles. There are numerous deep learning models used in such devices including those for detecting traffic signs & lights, other vehicles, pedestrians, etc.
Financial services
Trading: Estimate future stock market prices
Fraud detection: Detect fraudulent activities with higher accuracy and fewer false positives
Evaluate a client’s creditworthiness by analyzing information from multiple sources and responding to loan applications faster
Personalization: Identify next best actions for each customer
Feel free to read our article on deep learning use cases in finance for more.

Healthcare
Diagnose diseases leveraging medical imaging solutions, for example recognition of potential cancerous lesions on radiology images
Personalize medical treatments
Determine patients most at risk in the healthcare system
Feel free to read our article on deep learning use cases in healthcare for more.

Insurance
Automate claims and damage analysis from reports or images
Image-based risk prediction for home insurance
Pricing risk
Manufacturing
Manufacturing companies including discrete manufacturing like automotive or other industrial companies (e.g. oil&gas) rely on deep learning algorithms:

Provide advanced analytics tools for processing big data about manufacturing
Generate automated alerts about the issues of production lines (e.g. on quality assurance or safety) using sensor data to notify relevant teams on time
Support predictive maintenance systems by analyzing images and other sensor data
Empower industrial robots with sensors and computer vision skills
Monitor working environment around heavy machineries automatically to ensure people and items are at a safe distance
Feel free to read our article on deep learning manufacturing use cases for more.

Pharmaceuticals & Medical Products
Drug discovery: Prediction of drug effects, monitoring the use of drug and identifying its side effects
Enable precision medicine which includes remedies based on genetic, environmental or lifestyle factors (also called personalised medicine)
Public sector
Make predictions about population health risks
Facial recognition for security checks
Retail & E-commerce
Offer new shopping experiences such as “Just Walk Out” stores, and checkout-less shopping. For more, feel free to read our article on cashierless stores.
Other shopping experiences powered by deep learning include voice-enabled shopping and in-store robots.
Image search: Scanning the image of the product to find the product on the store or suggest similar alternatives
Forecasting product demand more accurately according to buying habits analysis and future trend predictions
Deliver effective inventory management to prevent of out-of-stock and oversupply
Provide personalised shopper experience based on browsing/purchasing history in-store or online
Formulate personalized recommendations and reminders, such as style matches for fashionistas
What are deep learning use cases in different departments or functions?
Analytics
Most deep learning applications empower analytics solutions. Therefore analytics departments rely on deep learning in numerous cases
Customer success
Chatbots offering immediate and personalized customer service
Monitor customers’ responses, reviews and social media activity to identify what they say about the brand
Churn prevention: Examine data in customer feedback forms/texts, identify potential churners and communicate with the customer without losing time
Cybersecurity
Intrusion detection/prevention systems (IDS / IPS): Investigate user activities and network traffic to prevent malicious activities and reduce false alerts
Operations
Automatically extract data from documents using deep learning models
Sales & Marketing
Create personalised advertisements according to browsing data
Identify potential clients that are most likely to buy the solution
Logo and counterfeit item detection in social media for brand protection
Supply Chain
Optimize routing to reduce costs, carbon footprint and delivery times
Identify driver or vehicle performance improvement suggestions based on sensor data
